# <span style="color:lightgreen">Version 1.1</span> - 5.10.2024

This release focuses on new capabilities such as:

- The creation of Clusters/Domains with VUM (soon to be deprecated) *OR* vLCM image type.
- Static NSX Host TEPs.
- Rework of host uplinks to be dynamic across **/modules/vcf**
- Clean up of provider statements across modules to reduce file structure bloating.

## What's New? 🔥

- VCF
  - **/modules/vcf/vcf_bringup**
    - now supports any number of PNICs for Host and DVS configuration.  This was previously a static configuration.
    - now supports DHCP or Static Host TEP IP Pools for Cluster(s)
  - **/modules/vcf/vcf_workload_domain_static/dhcp**
    - reworked modules for DHCP or static for Host TEP, logic will be combined in future releases.
    - reworked host uplinks for dynamic definition.  Default of two (2) with support of up to sixteen (16) + validation.
  - **/modules/vcf/vcf_workload_cluster_vum/vlcm**
    - reworked host uplinks for dynamic definition.  Default of two (2) with support of up to sixteen (16) + validation.
    - collapsed together to rework `vlcm_image_id` parameter
  - **/modules/vcf/vcf_network_pool**
    - added output of network_pool_id.

- NSX
  - **/modules/projects** - new module for Project creation for multi-tenancy isolation of Network and Security Policy Objects.

- LAB
  - **/modules/vcsa** - new module for deploying VCSA appliance to an ESXi host (without a VCSA).

## Integrations 🤖

Initial release leverage the public Hashicorp providers for VCF, vSphere and NSX.
**Terraform Providers:**

- [VCF](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/vmware/vcf/latest) for Cloud Builder deployment, SDDC Manager, Management Domain creation and Workload Domain creation.
  - *developed and testing against version `0.8.5`*
- [NSX](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/vmware/nsxt/latest) for NSX Edge-Cluster deployment, Logical Routing and Firewall configuration(s).
  - *developed and tested against version `3.6.0`*
- [vSphere](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/vmware/vsphere/latest) for meta data management, DRS and administration (Folders, Resource-Pools and Port-Groups).
  - *developed and tested against version `2.6.1`*

## Improvements 🛠️

- General rework of VCF modules and naming conventions.
  
## In Development 🏗️

Creating additional resources and templates for standardizing object/variable definitions to further develop the toolkit.  **/lab** modules are mostly in development/high churn.

## Known Issues 🐞

- **LAB** | Content Library and Nested ESXI appliances broken for now due to Broadcom/VMware transition.  
  - See https://community.broadcom.com/developer-portal/discussion/nested-esxi-appliance-template-images for offline reworking.
- **VCF** | The provider currently is focused on VCF 4.5, but majority of functions work with 5.0 and 5.1.  Use at own risk and development for other versions.

## Bug Fixes 🪲

# <span style="color:lightblue">Previous Releases</span>

| Version | Type | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| [v1.0](/docs/changelog/v1.0.md) | MAJOR | Initial release of Terraform Toolkit |
| [v1.01](/docs/changelog/v1.0.1.md) | MINOR | Misc fixes, typos, etc. |
